Article on creating PostgreSQL databases from shared RDS instance using postgres-tinsmith (#2111)
18F/cg-site: _kbarticles/2022-05-05-creating-postgresql-databases-from-shared-rds.md

---
layout: post

> title: "Creating PostgreSQL databases from a shared RDS instance using postgres-tinsmith"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Reducing iteration time by using a custom PostgreSQL broker"
```

date: May 5, 2022
excerpt: How to use postgres-tinsmith service broker to quickly create PostgreSQL databases from a shared RDS instance
---

> The cloud.gov team [recently deprecated the shared database instance plans]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link _posts/2022-04-25-deprecation-notice.md %}) of our platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The cloud.gov team [recently deprecated shared database instance plans]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link _posts/2022-04-25-deprecation-notice.md %}).
```

> One of the major benefits of the shared database instance plans was the ability to very quickly create new

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> databases, facilitating rapid application development. Unlike dedicated instance plans, which each provision a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unlike dedicated instance plans, which each provision a
```

separate RDS database instance and take a while to create, shared instance plans re-used the same RDS database instance and created new databases within the same instance, which completed almost instantly.

> This article will cover how to replicate the behavior of the deprecated shared instance plans using an 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can replicate the behavior of the deprecated shared instance plans using an 
```

open-source service broker known as [`postgres-tinsmith`](https://github.com/markdboyd/cf-postgres-tinsmith).

> Please note that while this approach has been tested manually, the `postgres-tinsmith` repo is not

Reviewer: This paragraph should move to the end. I'd also emphasize that this is a development aid, rather than a recommendation that all DBs used by production apps reside in the same RDS instance.

Author: I'm happy to do that, but are we worried that if move this content to the end that some people might miss it? Generally I would think we want to put important caveats/disclaimers up front in case people don't read all the way to the end

> actively maintained by the cloud.gov team, so this documentation is provided as a **proof-of-concept only and does not offer any guarantees of production readiness**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
actively maintained by the cloud.gov team, so this documentation is provided as a **proof-of-concept only and does not offer any guarantees of production-readiness**.
```

## 1. Create a dedicated RDS service

View our available dedicated RDS instance plans for PostgreSQL:

```shell
cf marketplace -e aws-rds
```

> Create a PostgreSQL service using one of our dedicated instance plans. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a PostgreSQL service using one of the dedicated instance plans. For example:
```

```shell
cf create-service aws-rds micro-psql <dedicated-db-name>
```

## 2. Deploy and configure `postgres-tinsmith`

> Follow [the instructions in the repo README](https://github.com/markdboyd/cf-postgres-tinsmith) to create and configure the `postgres-tinsmith` service broker.

Reviewer: The instructions in the repo README are suitable only for platform admins, who are not the target audience for this document.

In particular:

```
# register this tinsmith as a service broker in CF
cf create-service-broker postgres-tinsmith my-broker a-secret \
  https://postgres-tinsmith.$APP_DOMAIN
cf enable-service-access postgres
```

A non-platform admin must have the SpaceManager role and register the broker individually in each space where they want to use it. The instructions for a SpaceManager would be more like:

```
cf t -s SPACE
cf create-service-broker postgres-tinsmith my-broker a-secret \
  https://postgres-tinsmith.$APP_DOMAIN --space-scoped
```

While I'm making the comment here, really the additional information should be added to the upstream repository README if possible. However, only the latter set of commands are relevant for cloud.gov customers.

Author: OK, how about this: https://github.com/blacksmith-community/cf-postgres-tinsmith/pull/2

Make sure to use the `<dedicated-db-name>` created in step 1 as the database service name to bind to
`postgres-tinsmith`.

## 3. Create a database

Once `postgres-tinsmith` is deployed and configured, create a database using the new `shared` plan of the
`postgres` service:

```shell
cf create-service postgres shared <db-name>
```

## 4. Bind database to your application

> ### Binding using `manifest.yml`

Reviewer: I'd skip going into the manifest method here and just refer to [the upstream documentation on how to bind a service in a manifest](https://docs.cloudfoundry.org/devguide/deploy-apps/manifest-attributes.html#services-block) after you explain how to do it imperatively with the CLI commands.

Author: e1ac09d495eab00f8b4d3997685f0558bb3c01ca
